# Homework for evaluation Genome Assemlby lecture

1.	Run FastQC to all fastq files (i.e. 214, 224, 519 and 51) and obtain the .html report files
2.	Run TrimGalore to all files for adapters removing and low-quality trimming bases (Q>= 30). Obtain the fastQC html reports
Q1. How many sequences are in the raw fastq files and how many are in the trimmed  (_val_) fastq files? Produce a table with all these values.
Example:

**Table 1. Number of sequences in each fastq file**

|Genome|RawReads|ReadsAfterGalore|
|---|---|---|
|51_R1_fastqc|2706330|2394005|
|51_R2_fastqc|2706330|2394005|

3.	Produce a genome assembly using both IDBA_UD and SPADES assembler for each genome (i.e. 214, 224, 519 and 51)
4.	Obtain the basic statistics, length in nt, num of contigs, N50 and N90 for each assembly with each assembler. (use the ~/Genome_Assembly_lecture/Scripts/assembly-stats/assembly-stats scritp)
5.	Remove all contigs lower than 900 nt
6.	Calculate the average coverage per contig (use the perl ~/Genome_Assembly_lecture/Scripts/coverage.idba.pl and perl ~/Genome_Assembly_lecture/Scripts/coverage.spades.pl scripts).
7.	Calculate the BUSCO completeness for each assembly using BUSCO.
8.	Using Bandage look for circular contigs for possible plasmids or virus. Save the Bandage image for each genome.
9.	With all this information produce a table summarizing the main statistics of each genome.
Example:

**Table 2. General statistics of genome assembly**

|Genome|51|
|---|---|
IDBA length (nt)| 3644585|
IDBA #Contigs |148|
IDBA N50 |73987 n=15|
IDBA N90 |13398 n=57|
IDBA Coverage |59.49|
IDBA Completeness|96.8|
SPADES length (nt)| 3643883|
SPADES #Contigs |79|
SPADES N50 |110179 n=10|
SPADES N90 |28300 n=36|
SPADES Coverage | 71.06|
SPADES Completeness |97 %|
Presence of circular contigs| yes|

10.	According with these results which is the “best” assembly for each genome the one generated by IDBA or SPADES? Justify your answer.
11.	Put all this information (Table 1, Table 2, the Bandage image of the graph and your justification of the best assembly selection) in a text report using Word or google docs.
12.	As a final report you are sending the word report and the 4 assembly files (genomeNAMe.contigs.900.fasta [e.g 51.contigs.SPADES.fasta]) in a compressed folder with your name as a name file (e.g. VeraPonceDeLeonArturo.zip) to veraponcedeleon.1@osu.edu . **Please do not add any other file to the compressed folder (e.g. fastq files, html reports or tables).**

## The deadline to send the files is Friday May 29th at 23:59 hrs.





